[THEME MUSIC]
>>REGINA MEREDITH: The
science of hand reading
has progressed far
beyond the days of Madame
Zelda, the fortune teller.
In fact, according to today's
guest, Ellen Goldberg,
you can glean nearly
everything about a person
from their hands-- body,
mind, emotions, and soul.
From shape, color,
nails, hair, mounds,
each part tells a
part of our story.
So, I'm so excited
to talk you, Ellen.
Your book is like the tome.
It's kind of the end all of
books on the subject, right?
>>ELLEN GOLDBERG: I wanted it
to be as thorough as possible.
I'd have to be too bold and
brash to say it was the book,
but I wanted it to be
in print for 100 years,
to be a reference book.
>>REGINA: Yeah, it
couldn't be taught.
I mean, it is so thorough.
It's so well illustrated.
Everything is laid out
in such plain English,
but it actually is
almost a course of study.
>>GOLDBERG: It is
a course of study.
It's a textbook.
And anybody, really, can
learn how to read hands.
And if you start at the
beginning of the book,
really I've written it
in order that someone
would start at page one.
>>REGINA: Yes, and I
think it's appropriate.
>>GOLDBERG: Just read it
through in digestible amounts.
You know, read a
few pages a day.
And then it's written especially
to be friendly, absorbable,
understandable, and one thing,
one point, builds on the other.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>GOLDBERG: And if someone
went through it slowly,
they could become
a real palmist.
>>REGINA: Oh, yeah.
Absolutely.
>>GOLDBERG: Because
you don't have
to be psychic to read palms.
You just have to love people,
and have a real interest
in human nature.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Your book is the
first time I really
understood how deep that
art and science, as you say,
of hand reading goes.
How did you end up
doing this initially?
What drew you to hand reading?
>>GOLDBERG: In some
ways, it was fate.
When I was introduced to
the I Ching, when I was 27,
and in just maybe
15 minutes, I saw
that there was a
higher intelligence
that it would
communicate, and that it
could see me so clearly.
I just could not wait to
see what else existed,
and so I started to
study everything.
And lo and behold,
I was good at it.
And at a little school that
I found-- no longer exists,
but it was called the
School of Inner Vision--
I was asked to be the assistant
to the palmistry teacher.
I resisted at first,
because I wanted so much
to go to the tarot teacher,
who had requested me also.
But the head of the school
said, palmistry is your weakest
subject, and if we don't
put you with this teacher,
you may drop it.
So, it's this or nothing.
And so I became the
assistant, and this
is where fate took a hand.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>GOLDBERG: Three months
into the assistantship,
the teacher inherited a
house 100 miles from where
we lived, from New
York City, and said,
Ellen, the class is yours.
>>REGINA: Wow.
>>GOLDBERG: And so I left
my job as a social worker.
I was 29.
Those of you who
know astrology-- you
know astrology-- it
was the Saturn return,
so I was taking up my
real place in this world.
>>REGINA: Right
>>GOLDBERG: And I stayed one
jump ahead of the students,
and I taught there
for three years.
And that was my initiation.
By the time that I had
taught that for three years,
I was a palmist.
>>REGINA: But, you know,
it's not happenstance
that you happen to
be chosen for that,
but also that you were selected
to assist the tarot teacher.
And that also you're
expert in astrology,
and that you can overlay all
of these themes together.
This had to have been showing
itself even in your childhood.
>>GOLDBERG: In some ways, I was
always imaginative, always more
drawn inwards and artistic.
I painted.
I acted.
I danced.
But in all truth, Regina,
I didn't discover myself
until my late 20s.
When that awakening
came and I saw
the truth of the
communication ability
and the friendliness
of the higher forces,
everything changed forever.
I could never go back to my
old ways, to my old boyfriend,
to my old job.
>>REGINA: Sure.
>>GOLDBERG: It was a new life.
So, I totally believe
in being a late bloomer.
What showed early was my
sensitivity and my curiosity,
but I had not been
exposed to these things.
>>REGINA: It's interesting
because before we
went on camera, everybody in the
studio-- there are quite a few
moving parts here-- came over
and showed you their hand.
And you generously read each
person, and blew their mind.
>>GOLDBERG: Which
I adore to read
people's palms, wherever I go.
>>REGINA: Let's talk a little
bit about the history of hand
reading to begin with,
because most people do think
of it as kind of an
extension of fortune telling,
and maybe they can get
a thing or two right,
but let's go into
its deeper roots.
>>GOLDBERG: I think the roots
go back to the dawn of time,
when we see the hands
on cave paintings,
you know, everywhere
from some of them
from 25,000 years before the
Christian era, many from 8000,
9000 years BCE.
We see that people knew
that the hands were unique.
We did not have social media.
There were no books,
but there were tribes,
there were stories.
And as people gathered
together, they
started to discuss things that
they saw both in the heavens
and in the hands.
And so these were some of the
earliest mystical sciences that
were developed, and really
laid the groundwork for so many
other things that came later.
When we look at, say,
palmistry as we know it,
we know that the Chinese
used fingerprinting
for identification 1,000 years
before we did in the west.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>GOLDBERG: They used
different diagnosis, certainly,
way before that as well.
Do we know really whether it
came-- its first roots were
from India or from China?
I myself can't make
a good call on that,
but I know that we brought
back so much from the Persians.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>GOLDBERG: They also had
exquisite astrology, right?
All of these great nations,
all of these great areas
of the world, had both astrology
and palmistry traditions
reaching back
thousands of years.
One of the things that
I get a big kick out of
is that in the Vedas, these
ancient scriptures from India,
about 2000 BC there is actually
an admonition to the monks
saying, you know,
it's really not
right to read palms for money?
And so, therefore, we know it
was already a profession 2000
BC.
You could do it, but not for
money if you were a monk.
>>REGINA: That's interesting.
And so when you
started on this path
and you were assigned to
this particular teacher,
were there some events
that were pivotal for you
in the very beginning?
Were there some
readings that happened
that were just so
extraordinary and mind
blowing that it really
started taking you
in it, heart and soul?
>>GOLDBERG: I can say that
every reading is mind blowing.
Every hand is unique.
Look how we identify
people by fingerprints.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>GOLDBERG: And that in all
the world, your fingerprints
only belong to you.
Just add on to that the
shape of the fingertips,
the length of them, the
texture of the skin,
the development in
combination of the paddings
or mounts within the hand.
You know, the line
structure, and all the things
that can be there every
age along the line.
Every hand is unique,
but I must say
that getting to read the
hand of Muhammad Ali when
I was probably about 30, 31.
I was still a new palmist.
I had a job reading
palms and cards
at a very fine restaurant
at the World Trade Center,
called the Market
Bar and Dining Room.
And I was engaged
because of that.
Muhammad Ali gave a big benefit
for a children's center,
and they said, we'd like
to hire you to read palms.
And there I was getting to read
the hand of Muhammad Ali, and--
>>REGINA: Let's talk
about that for a moment.
>>GOLDBERG: OK.
>>REGINA: Tell us all
about the experience, what
you saw in him.
>>GOLDBERG: First of all,
just the size of the hands.
They were huge.
And, Regina, you have
a stone table here,
and when I pressed his
hands, they had no more
give in them than this stone.
Hard as a rock, and that
means incredible, vital force.
And at the same time, they
had a silkiness to them
that you only find in the most
refined, sensitive people.
So he was a very
unusual combination.
And I'll never forget the
size of the mount of Venus.
There was so much love of
life, and passion, and love
of love in him, and
appreciation of the beautiful,
that he was such
a gracious person.
And he was so intent
on the reading.
The only little
glitch was he kept
wanting to take the magnifying
glass out of my hand.
[LAUGHTER]
>>REGINA: Well, now
what about, I mean, he's
a warrior, obviously to have
done the job he did, but did
that show up in his hands?
The whole courageous
warrior aspect?
>>GOLDBERG: Yes.
He had a mount-- in the hand
there are seven paddings, well
really eight, but two
belong to the same mount.
>>REGINA: Oh, we're going
to go in to all of them.
>>GOLDBERG: And each
of us have archetypes.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>GOLDBERG: And there is one
archetype that is the warrior.
That's Mars.
And he had a huge mount of Mars.
Between someone who has
mount of Mars, but-- and that
I expected to see, really.
What I was blown away by--
>>REGINA: Was that Venus.
>>GOLDBERG: --was the Venus.
So much love.
So much juicy, good
feeling to him.
So he really was
a loving warrior.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Well, how beautiful.
I mean, I think so many people
have such a deep admiration
for him and don't even
know why, but it all
showed very obviously to you.
I love this comment
in your book.
It was a quote by Goethe,
that said, "The hand is
the outside part of the brain."
Now, how did you interpret that?
>>GOLDBERG: The
hand and the brain
are made from the
same stem cells,
so there is a connection
from the get go.
And when you develop,
there are more nerves
between the hand and the
brain than in any other part
of the nervous system by far.
And you know how every
thought has a chemistry?
This is the terminus for
all of those feelings, all
those chemical reactions.
And so, the mind
writes the lines.
Of course-- the hand,
you hardly have to think,
I want to raise this cup
and bring it to my mouth.
Good moment for a sip.
And I don't even have
to think of about it.
In that sense, it's
the outside brain.
But in the other sense, in
that it is a map of the brain.
Because of all those
nerves, because
of the connection between the
hand and the mind, every time
the mind changes in
a significant way,
the hand changes too.
>>REGINA: I find
that interesting,
even in some startling
ways, in the sense
that the length of a
digit can even grow.
So you're saying that-- if
I understand it correctly--
that what is
reflected in our hand,
is the result of
our subconscious
mind in particular.
>>GOLDBERG: Yes.
You know, anyone who has
studied creative visualization
or worked with affirmations,
you know that the conscious mind
does not necessarily
influence us directly,
or we would just think, well,
I'd like to be different,
or I'd like to have
better concentration
or develop this skill.
No.
The conscious must go
first to the subconscious.
It's like Jung said,
"We must always
go the way of the waters,
which tends downward."
Or even the word
success, which comes
from the Latin [? sukceso, ?]
which means to go down, so as
to come up.
You want to influence the
head and influence your fate,
and you can.
Each one of us can be really
co-creators of our destiny.
Work with the conscious in order
to influence the subconscious,
and the subconscious--
which we might
call the great magical
agent-- it effects things.
Now the wonderful
thing is, you can never
fool the subconscious.
>>REGINA: No.
>>GOLDBERG: Whether the
suggestions you give it
are positive or negative,
it will produce wherever
that dominant thought is.
Probably, our job is
to allow ourselves
to repeat certain thoughts over
and over so that we plant them.
We're planting the seeds
in the subconscious.
When it takes root,
the hand changes.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>GOLDBERG: The change
is so authentic.
It is amazing how
rapidly the hand changes.
>>REGINA: Really?
>>GOLDBERG: You
can compare them.
I'm sure you have noticed
in the book that I say,
you read the dominant
for right handed people,
that would be the right hand.
But the left hand--
and of course
this would be vice versa
for a left handed person--
but the left hand shows the
qualities given at birth,
and the right hand is
what's become of them.
And so it shows how
you are now, and what
we seem to have written for
ourselves for the future.
There's always a fate
at any given moment,
but that fate is fluid.
We are invited-- who
was it who said that?
Who said you can never step
in the same river twice?
I've forgotten the Greek
philosopher, but he also said,
character is destiny.
They knew it from
the ancient times.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>GOLDBERG: Oh, Heraclitus.
That's right.
And who we are and our dominant
thought patterns-- or as
the Buddha would say
it, "With our thoughts,
we make our world."
But it's really with
our repetitive thoughts.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
With our repetitive
thoughts, so they
become part of the repository
of the subconscious.
>>GOLDBERG: That's right.
If we want--
>>REGINA: New neural wiring.
>>GOLDBERG: Yes.
We rewire them, right?
>>REGINA: Right.
>>GOLDBERG: Just saying I'm
going to have strong willpower,
or sugar and candy have
no appeal to me at all.
You can't just say it once.
>>REGINA: You know the
subconscious said, liar.
>>GOLDBERG: That's right.
You have to show the
subconscious that you are
authentic and mean business.
>>REGINA: OK, so you're
talking about the ways
in which these things
can influence the hands.
So, I have a question
for you that I've
been kind of really
giggling to ask you this.
Three-- on my dominant
hand-- three fingers
have been cut off.
>>GOLDBERG: Is that so?
>>REGINA: Yeah.
What I'm saying-- you don't
have to look at them now.
>>GOLDBERG: I should
adore to look at them.
Let me see the two, just
for a moment, to compare.
>>REGINA: It's bizarre to have
that many fingers impacted.
This one, the pad is cut off.
This one, the whole finger
was cut off and sewed back on.
This one was cut off, but
they didn't sew it back on.
>>GOLDBERG: You
mean this took place
on three different occasions?
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>GOLDBERG: Whoa.
>>REGINA: What does that say
when you have three fingers cut
off on your dominant hand?
>>GOLDBERG: I want to tell you,
this is a first for me, Regina.
>>REGINA: I thought it might be.
>>GOLDBERG: So I do not
have an easy answer--
>>REGINA: Scar tissue.
>>GOLDBERG: --but I can say--
>>REGINA: All this weird stuff.
>>GOLDBERG: How wonderful
that you would never notice.
Because I asked you to
hold up your hand for me
when we were in the green room,
and I would not have noticed.
>>REGINA: Isn't
that interesting.
>>GOLDBERG: They
really came out.
There's not one
bit of deformity.
Now, of course, I
would then immediately
look at the
recessive hand to see
what the-- I would
use the recessive hand
for the relative lengths of the
finger, and not the dominant.
>>REGINA: Yeah, because
that's not a real length.
>>GOLDBERG: That's right.
And I would also want
to see if by chance you
had an influence from
the planet Saturn.
Because when I see that
things happen to people,
I look to see what archetype
would really be prone to that.
And the most accident
prone archetype is Saturn.
And there's something
that confirms that for me,
because you have a mark
that Saturnians have
which is this strong
line right here
in the middle of the
bottom third of the-- which
is trouble with the bones and
joints, and that's Saturnian.
>>REGINA: Interesting.
>>GOLDBERG: If you
need-- and of course
this would have been plenty of
trouble with bones and joints,
but there are others.
You may have some tendency
towards arthritis or some knee
issues, but it would
also make you deep.
One reason Saturnine as
subjects are accident prone,
is that the mind is always
thinking about something.
They're interested in
knowledge, and research,
and the world around them.
There are serious
philosophical thinkers.
>>REGINA: Yeah, I was
distracted every time
my finger was cut off.
>>GOLDBERG: They are the
most likely to be distracted.
We know each archetype
has lessons to learn,
and Saturn's is, be present.
Pay attention right now.
>>REGINA: I didn't
mean to throw a curve,
it's just that it's
such a weird situation.
>>GOLDBERG: Regina,
as me anything.
>>REGINA: You'd be the perfect
person to ask about it.
>>GOLDBERG: It's fascinating.
And when I have a chance,
maybe after the show,
I'd like to look more carefully
at the relative length
of the two hands,
of the finger--
well, show me just
for a minute, now.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>GOLDBERG: OK.
Very good.
Yes, what I do see
is that the one
that seems to have suffered
the most is the pinky.
Because in the recessive hand
I see a beautiful, long pinky.
>>REGINA: Oh, that pinky
was cut off when I was six,
and it's deformed.
>>GOLDBERG: That one?
>>REGINA: This one.
>>GOLDBERG: That one.
That's the one that
is the-- the others
have a relative length
that would hold their own,
even against the birth hand.
It's always interesting to see
where we choose to put rings.
This is the finger
of God, this finger,
and that shows your
spiritual nature.
And actually, there's
more to be developed.
I know you've had spiritual
experiences, Regina.
>>REGINA: But
there's more to come.
>>GOLDBERG: There's
more to come.
Because if you hold those
two hands in front of you
and take a peek
yourself, you'll notice
that the padding
under the index finger
is fuller in the recessive hand.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>GOLDBERG: That means you
have something to draw on.
That is your, kind of,
bank account of qualities
that are already there,
lying in the subconscious.
It's why whenever I
have the opportunity,
I look at both hands in people.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
And I think--
>>GOLDBERG: Because you
can see where they're weak,
what they haven't
developed, but where
are gifts that are
still going to give you
treasures yet to be mined.
>>REGINA: Still yet-- yes.
That's a wonderful
treasure chest to have,
constant spiritual growth.
>>GOLDBERG: Yes, with a
hand that looks like that,
you know you feel
supported by spirit.
>>REGINA: Oh, yes.
>>GOLDBERG: And you
know that you're
driven by it to be the best form
of Regina that you could be.
>>REGINA: Yes,
that would be true.
>>GOLDBERG: It's
naturally in you.
>>REGINA: Very true.
OK, now let's start breaking
down-- because in your book,
you have all of this.
So, let's talk
about-- let's see.
Let's go first to
the mounds and lines.
How's that?
Basic concepts.
>>GOLDBERG: Sure.
>>REGINA: So people can
start looking at their hands
as we're talking, OK?
So people can
begin understanding
the parts of the hand.
>>GOLDBERG: When I
teach palmistry--
and I have a little
school in Manhattan where
I train people--
we start with what
I call the basic
modifiers, and that's
going to be the things that
make each of those archetypes
unique.
Because not all Saturnine
people or Apollonian
types are going to be alike.
So first thing is you--
the very first thing
that I want to feel--
spread that right
across the table-- oh,
it's just like silk--
is to feel the
texture of the skin.
The silkier, the more refined
the texture of the skin,
the more refined
the nature, and you
know it's going to
go towards a higher
polarity of the archetype.
If it feels like
sandpaper, it's going
to go towards a lower
polarity of the archetype.
If it's in the middle, it's
a good, solid representation
of the archetype.
Just as nature would have
like the middle ground,
so can the archetypes.
>>REGINA: And so the archetypes
are determined by the mounds?
>>GOLDBERG: By the shapes.
>>REGINA: The shapes.
>>GOLDBERG: The
padding-- well, you know,
it's hard to know
exactly what terms
to use when we're not
using the superficial term
as the mounds of the hand.
But considering that
we call the hand
God's road map, we
think of this as a map,
the lines as rivers of energy,
and the paddings are mountains.
And they take different
shapes, height, forms.
When I look at a hand,
I look to see what shape
is going to jump out at me.
Are any very large?
Like one of the people
here in the studio,
I took a peek at their
hand as I was coming in
and I saw a huge formation
down at the bottom.
I knew this person
loved the ocean.
could hear music
with the cells of their
body, because I know what
the archetype is capable of.
We look-- and to
see, are there ones
that look fuller,
rounder, and also higher.
It's nice to look at the
hand right at eye level
and to see, how high
do those mounts reach.
We're not only one archetype.
We're usually a combination
of two or three.
>>REGINA: Can you explain the
mounds and the archetypes?
>>GOLDBERG: Surely.
>>REGINA: OK, let's do that.
>>GOLDBERG: There
are seven basics,
and they are the same as the
seven planets of the ancients,
or the seven planetary ruled
spheres on the Kabbalistic
Tree of Life.
These archetypes have been
used since very early times.
And there was so much
cross cultural pollination,
and different cultures
have recognized
the same archetypes, the
same gods and goddesses,
in other cultures as their own.
That's why the Greek and
Roman gods are so similar,
and some have similar names.
The names are changed, but
we know the attributes.
That whether it's Ares
or Mars, it's god of war.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>GOLDBERG: Whether
it's Venus or Aphrodite,
it's the love goddess.
Whether it's Mercury
or Hermes, it's
the wise, intelligent
trickster, god of medicine,
god of business,
bringer of information
and knowledge to humankind.
So there are-- the
seven archetypes
in the hand are named after
the ancient gods of Greece
and Rome.
The index finger is--
they are the pads that
are along the top ridge
under the fingers.
There's a special location
all across the middle band
for another.
And then there are
two along the bottom,
two bottom corners of the hand.
And their names are-- what
we know as the index finger,
that padding is the
Mount of Jupiter.
Saturn is the scholar,
the wise philosopher.
>>REGINA: The middle finger.
>>GOLDBERG: The middle finger.
Jupiter is the leader,
just like Jupiter
was the leader of the gods on
Mount Olympus, Zeus, Jupiter.
This is a leadership,
spiritual finger.
Saturn is called-- they
all have nicknames--
the balance wheel of the hand.
It is more conservative,
thoughtful, introverted,
because they all can be
introvert or extrovert.
And it's often-- can't be judged
in the same with the others.
All the others can be judged
by fullness and height,
but Saturn's nickname
is the flat mound.
And one way you can tell
when Saturn-- it's not
the only way-- but one way you
can tell that Saturn is very
strong in a person,
is the whole hand
will have a certain
flatness or evenness.
It's not the case in your hand,
even though Saturn is strong,
and I saw it by other
things and also by the fact
you told me you've
had those accidents.
And sometimes, just knowing
some facts of a person's life
says, oh, look for
this or look for that.
And so Saturn is solitary,
thoughtful, introvert,
and deep-- tends to melancholy.
But its neighbor, what we
know as the ring finger,
is the finger and
the Mount of Apollo,
and that is extroverted.
And some people can be
both Saturn and Apollonian.
They could share center
a prominence in the hand,
and therefore the person
could be introvert, extrovert,
go back and forth like
inhalation and exhalation.
>>REGINA: Depending on the
situation and environment.
>>GOLDBERG: Apollo-- Saturn,
for instance, its neighbor,
is the hardest worker,
can lose itself in work.
Apollo can lose itself in play.
It shows us how to have fun, and
it's the creative, artistic--
just like Apollo was
the head of the Muses.
Apollo was associated
with all the arts,
and is always shown with
his instrument the lyre.
And therefore, Apollonians
have creative ways.
It could be painting, writing,
dancing, acting, film.
So many.
>>REGINA: Very artistic.
>>GOLDBERG: Very
artistic, and we
would tell which one of
them by the combination
it had with other mounts.
Because we usually are
a combination of two,
often three mounts.
The little finger is Mercury.
And you would be amazed,
for the littlest finger,
how huge that mount
can be sometimes.
Sometimes when I hold
the hand like this--
and it would not be
this way in my hand--
you would see a rising
under the pinky that
would make you think that really
is like the Rocky Mountains,
majestic and tall.
And Mercury goes with the god
Mercury, god of communication,
business, medicine.
And some of the best doctors,
lawyers, business people,
communicators, teachers,
have this archetype.
And each of the archetypes even
has certain characteristic look
in the body.
Sometimes you can
recognize people just
walking down the street.
Whoa, look at that soft,
corpulent, pale, lunar look.
You could say, oh, is that
a psychic coming towards me.
Or you see that shapely,
long legged look
of the Apollonian, who
are tall, and thin,
and bony, and you
say, oh there's
a Saturnian coming towards me.
So we can memorize those.
It's so easy.
The whole middle
portion of the hand
belongs to the planet
Mars, and we judge it
by its curve outward
on the percussion.
And just under the lifeline we
divide it into the lower Mars--
just under, below the
lifeline-- and upper Mars--
just slightly
above the headline.
They cover different traits
of the Mars archetype.
The true Mars archetype
comes from upper Mars.
Lower Mars provides two
very important things--
sexual consciousness and
sex drive, and assertion.
Of course, since it rules
the sex chakra anyway, right,
and is associated the Kundalini
force in Western mysticism,
is called The Mars force.
So it's that.
You know, it's the force coiled
at the bottom of the spine that
rises in meditation,
to be able to use
for all manner of things--
healing, enlightenment,
transformation.
The Mars energy is very
much associated, of course,
with love, sex,
bravery, warrior-ship,
and so it's the
development of upper Mars
that we would use to identify
a true Mars archetype.
Many who have a
strong mount of Mars
are going to have both upper
and lower Mars developed.
Perfectly great.
They're really
firing on all fronts.
They are assertive, and they
have that tremendous bravery
and resistance.
And you see that some
people have bulges.
But some people, the
hand is flat here.
And so they're really
not the bravest,
but they could have
lower Mars and they
could have a lot of bravado.
Everyone would think they were
really stronger than they were
because they would have
the assertion, the ability
to put things forth, and no one
would know how much it actually
cost them to do that.
>>REGINA: To do that.
Yeah.
>>GOLDBERG: But if they have
a full lower Mars, they can.
But when we identify
someone as a Mars type,
it would never be just
from lower Mars alone.
It would be from upper Mars.
Mars is indispensable,
because it never gives up.
And if you have
it flat here, you
have to have something
else in the hand that
will keep you going.
Sometimes people
with large thumbs--
which is willpower-- probably
the single most important thing
in the hand.
A large thumb will make people
without much Mars complete
and do things anyway.
>>REGINA: So it will
balance that out.
OK, let's get to
Venus, and then we'll
go to fingers
including the thumb.
>>GOLDBERG: OK.
A little Venus
and a little Luna.
The ball of the thumb
is the mount of Venus,
and this is the
single largest area
in the hand given to any mount.
Probably because love does
make the world go round,
and a lot of opportunity
for development
is given for it in the hand.
People who have good, round,
mounts of Venus are loving.
They live for love.
They love to make people happy.
They're not the most
ambitious people.
What they want is to
enjoy life, and to help
other people enjoy life also.
They're giving.
They like to dance.
We have a nickname for Venus.
It's called the Mount of
Melody, and people who have
a strong mount, have grace.
They love music.
They need it in their life.
Many a fine musician-- I
read the head of Pavarotti
and also of Leonard
Bernstein when I was young.
That was a pivotal reading.
>>REGINA: Large Venus mounds?
Massive.
>>GOLDBERG: They looked like
they were stung by bees.
They were full to
bursting, Regina.
It was marvelous to see.
People who are extreme
in traits often
have extreme
indications on the hand.
In the lower corner-- now mine
is not the most well developed,
and it's the most rare
to have well-developed,
but Einstein did, and many
an imaginative thinker
does-- is the mount of the moon
for imagination and intuition.
Which is why, for
me, I can understand
how Einstein said that
imagination was more important
than reason or than knowledge.
Because he imagined.
He saw, like in a
vision, and intuited
many of his finest
discoveries, and then
spent a long time proving them.
But they come in
a flash, and this
is where intuition comes from.
>>REGINA: Let's talk about him
for a moment, because we're
going to go there anyway.
And we have a picture
from your book.
He also, as I recall, had
very, very low slung thumbs.
>>GOLDBERG: Could you see
that clearly in the book?
>>REGINA: Yes, I did.
>>GOLDBERG: The
thumb-- like my thumb
is attached right in the middle.
Turn your towards me.
Yours is attached right
in the middle also,
medium low, just a little
bit lower set than mine,
but Einstein's came out right
near the bottom of the hand.
The lower set the
thumb, the greater
the intellectual capacity.
>>REGINA: So what about thumbs--
we've talked about the low
slung thumb and intellect--
>>GOLDBERG: Oh, look
how low set that is
on your left hand, Regina.
>>REGINA: It is lower.
>>GOLDBERG: Oh, now that I see
it open to its full extent,
you have a beautiful
low set thumb.
>>REGINA: Oh, why thank you.
>>GOLDBERG: Now
I'm so impressed.
When people hold their
thumbs out like that,
it means they're
claiming total freedom.
Not only do we look at
the setting of the thumb,
high being more [INAUDIBLE],
central-- doesn't mean
you're unintelligent, because I
have centrally located thumbs,
it's just that that is
not the mark that's going
to identify the intelligence.
But low set thumbs
want freedom, and they
have a good intellectual
capacity and also
manual dexterity.
You could be good
with your hands.
>>REGINA: If I didn't
keep cutting fingers off.
>>GOLDBERG: If you didn't take
off the ends of the fingers.
It does have an influence.
>>REGINA: It does.
OK, so what about
when we have, say,
a tight or high thumb
that can't move outward.
What's that mean?
>>GOLDBERG: They're less free.
They would rather play things
more safe or know the rules,
or you should go more
slowly and carefully.
But whether your thumb is
high, medium, or low set,
every day you can look at
the position of your thumb,
and it's like a
weather barometer.
>>REGINA: So it'll tighten up
or loosen up on a given day?
>>GOLDBERG: And in a
twinkling of an eye.
>>REGINA: Interesting.
>>GOLDBERG: Because
it's showing you,
how do you feel about
your relationship to life?
Like when it's out in
the way you showed me,
that's tremendous freedom.
That is as open to
life as you could get.
And not only do you want
the freedom for yourself,
you want it for
other human beings.
When it's at a 45
degree angle like this,
then you're facing life
in a very open, spunky,
friendly way, and
also open to life.
The wide opening is
extreme claiming a freedom,
but the 45 degree
opening is very healthy.
But as it gets closer to
the hand-- and some days
you'll wake up and
you'll see the thumb is
hugging the hand like a magnet,
and you want to play it safe.
You want to be
closer, more private.
You don't want to make any
big decisions at that time.
And for people who hold their
thumbs like that chronically,
you want to go very
slowly and carefully
and formally in
getting to know them.
Whereas open thumbs like
that, just like you and I,
we had a big hug
the moment we met,
because people with thumbs
like that are open to life--
>>REGINA: Pretty much.
Not a lot of boundaries there.
>>GOLDBERG: One
last thing about it
is sometimes the thumb wants
to actually be pointed inwards,
and that's depression.
>>REGINA: So if people are
holding their hands like that.
>>GOLDBERG: When the thumb
points in-- sometimes
even it's out, but it
points towards it--
you know they're not
feeling so great.
And I often suggest they
take a little retreat.
But if it's like this,
they're not their best.
And people who are
really depressed,
and you'll see this sometimes
in the dying as well,
they'll enclose the
thumb in the hand.
And it's like-- because
it's the seat of willpower,
and it means the will
is being withdrawn.
>>REGINA: So if there were
one little key to read people
and where they are,
their openness or fears,
it's the thumb?
>>GOLDBERG: You could see
really where they are, and also
if the fingers are held
tight or held open.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>GOLDBERG: Like every time
I've looked at your hand
this morning-- this few
times here, and just
slightly for a moment
before hand-- your fingers
always have spaces, and
that means easy to approach,
open to life, easy
to get to know.
As soon as the fingers
are held tight together--
take your time, want things
proved, more conservative, not
that easy to approach.
Be gentle, and don't
expect things right away.
Much more private.
Much more open.
You can imagine how many
times a reading will start--
because I always ask people to
hold their hands straight up--
with their hands held like this,
and as I start to tell them
things that are true
about themselvess--
>>REGINA: They start opening
into their normal position.
>>GOLDBERG: But some people, if
it's not their normal position
to be like this and
it's just that they're
conservative at the
beginning of the reading,
they will chronically
be held close together.
>>REGINA: I see.
You know, there's this-- that
being held close together
and flexibility thing we
were just talking about.
There is someone I saw
the hands of recently,
and I knew this person.
It's just someone from
the past that I had known,
and knew some of
their proclivities.
And this person had some
disturbed, dark things
going on in their being,
extreme fear of rejection,
judgment, and all of this
that created behavior that
didn't serve them.
>>GOLDBERG: And did you
see things in the hand that
looked unusual?
>>REGINA: Oh, Yeah.
I've got to tell you what
I saw 20 years later.
The person had skin that was so
thick and overgrown and rough,
they looked like 100-year-old,
150-year-old hands,
and had to have regular
operations to cut the tendons
just to have any movement.
>>GOLDBERG: Isn't it amazing,
Regina, that the hand--
>>REGINA: And I had
just read your book.
>>GOLDBERG: --is
such a metaphor.
>>REGINA: Oh my, god.
>>GOLDBERG: Even for
people who have not
read my book, to
think of the hand
as a metaphor for the person.
Do you know if the hand cannot
open to its full extent--
we hope that a person
can open a hand fully,
and we press down
on it a little bit.
This is considered normal,
healthy, adjustable.
People who are not adjustable,
who hold things in and who
are very tight in their
manner, the fingers won't open.
Then there are some maybe--
>>REGINA: That are
super flexible.
>>GOLDBERG: And mine don't go
back as much as some people.
Some people really-- those are
versatile, adaptable people.
The more flexible the hand,
the more flexible the mind.
And you could just imagine that
that person with the calloused
over--
>>REGINA: It was
almost like lobster.
I mean, it was just
thick, thick, rough skin.
>>GOLDBERG: When you
say the word lobster,
that brings up for me the
image of it also being
a little bit scaly and rough.
>>REGINA: It was like that.
>>GOLDBERG: And that is
associated with fear.
>>REGINA: Now that makes sense.
>>GOLDBERG: There
are many people
who have a good deal of
fear, and those hands
can be either cracked, dry
to the point of splitting,
covered over in scales.
And when you put that
together with a hand that
can't open-- like say we
have a myriad of traits,
but many of them have
things in common.
You give somebody's
hand like four or five
things that all border
on similar stories,
then you know you have
a very strong specimen
of a particular type of
being in front of you.
Sometimes we have people
like Muhammad Ali.
You would never have expected--
I would never have expected
that silky skin on a warrior.
>>REGINA: That refinement.
But he had a refined
mind and way of being.
>>GOLDBERG: So
therefore, it's also
the juxtaposition of qualities,
the opposite qualities
in the same nature, that
also define a human being.
The hand, in many ways, is
a very simple symbol system.
It does not actually
tell everything,
but what it does
tell, it never lies.
Because it will change as
you change, and it does
tell plenty.
Of course--
>>REGINA: So, go ahead.
>>GOLDBERG: I was
going to say, we
have not even discussed lines.
>>REGINA: No, we're going to
get to fingers and lines now.
Just briefly on the
fingers, which each one is,
and when you have a
dominant length or whatever.
Yeah, and you can hold
yours up when we're talking.
>>GOLDBERG: When
I look at hands,
I can almost say that almost
every part is my favorite,
because every part is exciting.
The fingers are named
for the mounts that
lie underneath them, so we have
the finger of Jupiter, Saturn,
Apollo, and Mercury.
They all have
standard proportions,
and Saturn always considered to
be the longest as the balance
wheel.
Since it's conservative, it
holds the other qualities
in the hand from
running away with them.
If it is ever shorter
than its two neighbors,
you have someone in front
of you who is darn foolish,
and is not going to be able
to make wise decisions.
>>REGINA: Watch out.
You don't want a
short middle finger.
>>GOLDBERG: Never.
But its two neighbors, to be
considered average-- and mine
are close to that-- are
normally about the same size.
I'm adjusting mine
to look like that.
And would come to the very
center of the top section,
called a phalange, of the Saturn
finger, our central finger.
Or that the pinky also
has a line of demarcation
when gently held against
the side of the hand,
it should come to
the line that divides
the top and middle
phalanges of its neighbor.
When a finger is way longer
or shorter-- like the Jupiter
finger could be almost
as long as Saturn,
and you will see
this fairly common--
then the person is a
natural born leader,
and in fact, has
to be in charge.
You'll know it in
their relationship.
their business.
And these are the
people who are meant
to be good administrators,
fair and just,
and might often be
highly spiritual.
Many a politician,
a fine leader,
the president of a corporation,
the head of an office,
has a strong finger of Jupiter.
But say they did not
have a very good hand,
and the skin was rough
instead of silky.
If it was silky, they
could be the president
of the board of directors of
a corporation, of a church.
You know, something
very refined.
But if it was rough, they might
be the leader of the gang.
>>REGINA: I see.
>>GOLDBERG: But lead they will.
Many people with
strong Jupiter's
just go off and start
their own companies,
do their own business,
because they weren't made
to take orders from anyone.
If it is short, say it not only
doesn't come to the middle,
but it doesn't hardly
makes coming to the line
that divides the two phalanges
on its neighbors finger,
these people don't
want responsibility.
They don't want to
be in the limelight.
They could work
as part of a team.
I've known marvelous people
to have short Jupiter fingers,
but it isn't because
they're in charge.
They don't want to be in charge.
Can they still be
ambitious, because we call
this the finger of ambition.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>GOLDBERG: You can
imagine how a long Jupiter
finger is ambitious.
They could still succeed
very well in this world,
because many times-- and I've
seen some here this morning--
the shorter Jupiter
finger will be accompanied
by an extra long pinky.
And the pinky succeeds, not
because it likes the limelight,
but because it has
such good sense.
>>REGINA: Yeah, it's smart.
>>GOLDBERG: And
it loves process,
and it's smart as can be.
And so then, in a quiet way--
because Jupiter is out front,
but Mercury would rather do
things in a more subtle way,
let other people be
in the limelight,
and be the power
behind the throne.
They will have their success,
but in a different manner.
Let's switch over and talk
about the ring finger.
When the ring finger
is as long as Saturn,
now you have people who
are creative, artistic,
who long to have fun
and who will take risks.
Because just as Saturn is our
most conservative archetype,
Apollo is the most
risk taking archetype.
They will go skydiving.
They will do the stock market.
They love to go to casinos
to have a good time.
Whatever it is.
They'll take risks in
their lives, in their work.
And you know that
they must play,
and they are free with the body.
Do you know, every
one of these has
their own kind of
relationship to love and sex?
>>REGINA: OK.
>>GOLDBERG: Apollo--
Appolonians--
are the most naturally
free with the body,
and that's why in the lower
aspect of the archetype
is where we find sex workers who
can use the body as a business
tool.
In the higher form, we might
find showgirls and beautiful
women, artists
models, who felt fine
about taking their clothes
off, because the body-- it
was impersonal.
Where the Saturnian, oh no.
So conservative.
You'd have to coax them.
Not in public, thank you.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>GOLDBERG: The pinky, when it
is long-- we have two forms.
It can be long and
straight, which is probably
the safest because if it comes
above this line-- first of all,
just to come to the
line is completely good.
And I must say that during
the writing of my book,
with my book partner-- I have
to mention my partner, Dorian
Bergen, with whom
this book would never
have seen the light of
day without Dorian's help,
because she was the
producer of the book.
I may be the writer, but
writer cannot do it alone.
You need constancy in a project
that takes as many years
as this.
And to have a friend who
would co-edit, sit by my side,
put the words into the computer,
do all the public relations
and-- indispensable.
>>REGINA: Does she
have a long pinky?
>>GOLDBERG: She absolutely does.
Her two archetypes
are Mercury and Mars.
She is go, go, go.
Whereas I am sort of
Jupiter and Saturn.
I have ambition.
I have spirituality, but
I've got a little thumb
for weak willpower.
Dorian has a big thumb.
But during the
writing of this book,
my pinky grew from
being just barely
at the line of demarcation.
It got above it in
these last few years.
In other words,
I'm 71 years old.
Your hand can change
until the day you die.
We are constantly in
process every day.
But if you have a
long pinky, you're
going to be a
communicator, and it's
going to say you are
probably good with money.
Unless it's very low set.
You see, mine is not set
even with the others,
so mine is a pinch low set.
>>REGINA: Lower.
>>GOLDBERG: But
some of them are set
so low that they
seem that they're
on a whole different level.
Pinkys that don't
come to the line,
they don't like to deal
with money very much.
They're not very good at it.
And the pinky, or
the Mercury finger,
is also where we get
talents for being
able to judge human nature.
So that when I have someone
come to me for a reading
and they have a little
pinky, doesn't reach anywhere
near the line of
demarcation, then I
encourage them to
learn something
like palmistry or
astrology so that they
can look into the nature of
people and have some way--
>>REGINA: What an excellent--
>>GOLDBERG: --to
objectively judge it.
People who have a
long pinky, or maybe
with an ever so slight curve
in it, oh, they meet you,
they know you.
They are never wrong.
They are exquisite judges.
If the finger is too bent--
there can be a little curve,
and then there's
very deep curves,
and you'll see examples
of that in my book-- then
they run the risk of being
too clever for their own good.
And they need many
moral qualities
to rope in the ability, because
it comes so easy to them
to see possibilities.
>>REGINA: It's like they're
their own to trickster.
>>GOLDBERG: Their own trickster.
Because remember, Mercury
is the trickster as well.
So it's a complex archetype.
So we're always looking to see
the relative length, now that
is one factor.
The other is, are
they medium length--
which is mine-- sort of
with a decent relationship
to the size of the palm itself.
Or do they seem to be short, or
do they seem to be very long?
The medium length
on almost anything
just gives good support to the
major archetypal influence.
But when you have extremes, like
extreme flexibility or extreme
stiffness or say very
short fingers-- the shorter
the fingers, the
quicker the mind.
Short fingers, they don't
want-- you can't hold them back,
and they get the big
picture right away.
>>REGINA: I saw someone
like that yesterday, who
does have a very quick mind.
Very flexible, she's--
boom-- she's on it.
>>GOLDBERG: Yes.
And we add that together with,
are those fingers flexible?
What kind of
fingertips are they?
Are they tapered to
act like antennas,
or are they broad to say,
nope, my way only-- refusing
outside influences
from the cosmos.
>>REGINA: Or conical.
>>GOLDBERG: Or
conical, which are
artistic and creative
and receptive.
But the little
pointy ones, rare.
They're like antennas
to the cosmos.
If you wanted to see
a really psychic hand,
because long fingers are
careful, slow, thoughtful,
sensitive.
You might see a sort of longish
fingers, pointy tips, big mount
of the Moon, soft, gentle--
>>REGINA: So those
are the psychics?
>>GOLDBERG: That is a very
archetypal form of psychic.
And you'll probably
recognize them,
as they are often kind
of fleshy and soft.
This chin recedes
just a little bit.
The eyes bulge a little.
Every archetype
has its highest--
not only do they have higher and
lower examples of themselves,
and then good medium examples--
but even the highest examples,
everyone has liabilities.
Everyone has some
excess that they
could too easily fall into.
And sometimes you recognize
people, as I mentioned before,
just by the look of them.
And only recently I was looking
at an old Judy Garland movie.
I think it was, A Star is Born.
And I recognized that she had
a beautiful, but Lunarian face.
I saw the eyes, the
little upturned nose,
but the bulginess, the
browness in the eyes,
the way the nose turned
up, the small chin.
And I thought, she's Luna.
And I wait and watch the movies
till they raise their hand,
and then try to pause
it with the clicker,
because I've gotten
to read-- I've read
Greta Garbo's hand that way.
Jack Nicholson's.
Anybody who's in the movie and
I can stop it, it's fascinating.
But I saw, then I
understood the propensity
towards alcohol and
drugs, because Luna
likes altered states.
Everyone, like Jupiter--
mine-- over eating,
we love food too much.
Saturn overwork, and
maybe need for security--
hiding the money
under the mattress.
You know, just, I need.
Apollo, overspending.
Oh, don't give an
Appolonian a credit card.
And Mercury, it would
be too much love
of money and overwork.
These are very much workaholics.
Mars could be-- we
have an old joke.
We say Mars loved the three M's.
Probably the three M's
were more prevalent to be
used as terms-- meat, hearty
food, malt, they love to drink,
and mattress.
And so they will over do.
They like these things
very, very much.
Venus-- it's passivity,
and they could just
let people walk all over them,
over give, give themselves
away.
And the moon, it
could be lying, when
they go bad, or alcohol also.
When I went to some open
meetings of Alcoholics
Anonymous, I saw
so many Lunarians,
and many with psychic blushes.
Because Luna connects
us to the cosmos,
you can see why people who might
have a problem with alcohol
could also cure it with
spirit, because of relationship
to a higher power,
because it's all
embedded in the same archetype.
>>REGINA: I mean,
this is so fun.
I'm hoping that everybody
that's watching this
has their hands out, or they're
looking at each others hands.
>>GOLDBERG: Oh, I hope so too.
>>REGINA: And also, I mean,
the book is just divine,
the way you've done this.
But we have just a
couple minutes left.
Let's just talk about a
couple other little things,
which is like the
springiness of the skin.
>>GOLDBERG: Oh, absolutely.
>>REGINA: If you press a
mound, if it just stays there--
>>GOLDBERG: Oh, Regina,
you have read the book.
>>REGINA: I did read the book.
Do you want it to spring back?
You don't want it
depressed for too long.
>>GOLDBERG: Now when
you meet someone--
or you can test your own--
you press it, and you'll see.
And you can see whether
it has a bounce to it.
Let me feel yours.
Yes, look at that bounce.
You can see it bounce back.
Here, look.
It's softer.
The hand is not the
same in every place.
There is a general--
we call this
the resilience of the
hand, and that shows you
how much energy's available.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>GOLDBERG: When
it has a bounce,
we call it intelligent energy
or intelligent elasticity,
because without good
energy, you don't develop
all those archetypal talents.
Because every archetype not only
has liabilities and talents,
there are so many
interests, talents,
possibilities that
each one contains,
but are they going
to be developed.
The springiness of the
hand will tell you.
If it is soft, means the
person is more emotional.
And so their energy
will come and go,
depending on the emotions,
but they can still accomplish.
When it's hard as a rock, like
say Muhammad Ali's, normally
that would lower the
intelligence some,
but it would give such
enormous physical vitality
that they would accomplish and
do, but normally in one area.
Ali was different because
of that silky skin,
so it raised him up to be--
>>REGINA: So fascinating.
>>GOLDBERG: It gave
him more brainpower,
more refined thinking ability.
But some hands collapse under
you, almost like a jelly fish,
and those people have no energy.
It depends for them where
they're placed in life,
because they're never
going to do anything
to change it on their own.
>>REGINA: Interesting.
Well, there are so
many more factors--
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
>>GOLDBERG: Oh, the lines.
>>REGINA: And we don't
even have time for lines.
Oh my gosh.
>>GOLDBERG: Well then
I'll just say the theory
of lines in one sentence.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>GOLDBERG: The deeper
and the more clear
that a line is, than
whatever it represents
is going to function better.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>GOLDBERG: And if there
is one line that is deeper
than all the others,
that area of life
is where the person
really functions from.
Sometimes it's the heart.
Sometimes it's the head.
Sometimes it's the life.
And also I should say, not
everyone has every line,
but normally we have the big
three-- headline, heartline,
and lifeline.
And I think it's important
to know the lifeline does not
show how long one lives.
It shows how long
energy is a gift.
And people live much
longer than their lifeline
if they take care of
themselves, because then they
have to be partners
with that energy.
>>REGINA: That's good to know.
Yeah.
>>GOLDBERG: And sometimes it
appears that it's a short line,
but it's not really.
The line may have
ended at one place,
but jumped outwards
to expand the life
or jumped inwards
to pull the life in.
So don't just think, oh,
I have a short lifeline,
I'm in trouble.
Look and see if
there is one right
next to it that has jumped
out or inwards right
where the others left off.
>>REGINA: It's just
so fascinating.
I love what you do.
And as we talked about
in the beginning,
you also do tarot to
that depth, astrology,
and you lay these
over hand readings.
And you must do
couple's hand reading.
>>GOLDBERG: Oh, I
do couples readings
before marriage, or
sometimes just before divorce
or during couples therapy.
I have been a
psychotherapist for 30 years
as well in Manhattan, but I'm
going to be concentrating more
on readings, now.
I read for people all over the
world by Skype or by phone.
>>REGINA: Oh, good.
So they can contact you.
>>GOLDBERG: Oh,
they can contact me.
I send them directions
on how to take
really excellent
photographs of the hand,
so that I can read them.
I've read for people
all over the world.
>>REGINA: What is
your website address?
>>GOLDBERG: My website
is schooloforacles.com,
and there's a
contact Ellen page.
>>REGINA: OK, good.
Wonderful.
And you also have-- we
were talking off camera--
lots of little videos, little
tutorial videos on hand
reading--
>>GOLDBERG: For people
who are in to palmistry
and they can't come to
New York to study with me.
And one day I'll get
tech savvy enough
to give big classes
on the internet,
but for now I've put up 50
videos on palmistry for free.
They're on YouTube
and on [INAUDIBLE],
and they cover
almost-- a little bit,
they're just five to
eight minutes long--
on every subject in the book.
>>REGINA: That's a nice gift.
I really appreciate that
you do that for all of us.
And meanwhile,
we're out of time.
And I've loved my time with
you, and I'll treasure the book
and pass it around a lot.
>>GOLDBERG: Oh, thank you.
>>REGINA: And perhaps
we'll come back and revisit
on the subject of
the tarot one day,
because that's a big
passion and I haven't really
gone into that one in the
antiquity of that science yet,
so that could be fun.
>>GOLDBERG: It's not
as old as the others,
but it shows that magic
is alive and well,
because it's developing still.
>>REGINA: Yes.
Ellen, thank you so
much for your time,
and your generous spirit
in reading everybody here
in the studio today, as well.
>>GOLDBERG: It was my pleasure.
Thanks.
>>REGINA: The name of the
book is The Art and Science
of Hand Reading.
You can go as deep as you want
with this magnificent tutorial.
Until next time, thank you
for joining us here at Gaia.